# The World of Agents

Two days before I wrote this sentence down, this paper called [More Agents Is All You Need](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2402.05120.pdf) came out. Besides these, there are about 7 blogs in my reading list talking about Agents. There are also people using [AI agents build Operating Systems](https://github.com/agiresearch/AIOS). And I just finished talking to a start-up that leverages agents to automate website browsing flows. Last weekend, I boarded my wife to death while discussing how I am thinking about a critic agent that leverages bigger models to tame lower-level agents to prompt task success rate. Hopefully, you get the idea at this point.
                    
But, interestingly, when you hop on perplexity and ask what is an AI agent it will tell you:
> Based on the search results, there does not appear to be a clear, defined "AI agent framework" being discussed. The sources cover various topics related to AI, intelligent agents, and their potential applications, but do not describe a specific framework or approach.

My take on an AI agent is an inference unit that can perform one or a series of tasks subject to a pre-defined goal. Keeping it at a high level, the AI agent is software that can do things for you. It can be as simple as a chatbot that can answer your questions, or as complex as a robot that can do your laundry. The key is to define the **goal** and **decompose** that goal into logical steps (note that the logical steps are not fixed, as there can be many ways to complete the goal. You can think of an agent designed solely to generate a series of tasks. And this other agent is designed to attribute these tasks to dedicated agents. Then some agents are critical of the workflow and may ask certain parts to be re-done and observe an alternative. And you have other agents helping you summarize and validate the outcome. As the tasks differ, the models/prompts/logic designed for each agent can be different. Here, there is your army of minions, please be the best villain and go dominate the world. 
        
At this point, you don't want all of your agents to sit on top of an OpenAI API as it can be \$\$\$ when you turn on the machine. It becomes fascinating to leverage a variety of different models, fine-tuned/pre-trained on specific tasks, to drive down your cost of operation. And to let this system run, you will also need scalable inference... wait a second... am I recalling my previous section now? It must be important.
        
[Written by Site 🤓]